Hi Bioconductor Developers,

Overall plan

- Bioconductor hosts each package as a distinct repository at
  git.bioconductor.org. From Bioconductor's perspective, this is the
  canonical location. Nightly builds will be based on these
  repositories, release branches will be created in the repositories,
  etc.

- Developers clone or otherwise sync their code base to these
  repositories. Each developer will be able to push to and pull from
  (e.g., branches and version bumps at package release) their
  git.bioconductor.org repository.

- Developers are encouraged to host and develop their source code on
  github or other git-based social platforms. This promotes community
  involvment, and empowers developers to adopt best pratices related
  to issue tracking, continuous integration, bug fixes, pull requests
  from their community, etc.

Timing

- Our plan is to make a 'clean' transition from SVN to git,
  approximately one month after the next Bioconductor release.

Repositories

- The git repositories will be derived from a 'snapshot' of the latest
  SVN repository at the time of the transition.

- Each repository will capture the full SVN commit history of the
  package. Releases will be included as branches in the repository.

- We anticipate that software and experiment data packages will be
  hosted at git.bioconductor.org. Experiment data packages will use
  git-lfs to manage large data.

- The github Bioconductor-mirror repository will be removed.

Test phases

- We anticipate two test periods.

- A private 'alpha' test phase is starting shortly. Alpha testers will
  initially have pull access to their repository, and will follow
  tentative work flows for gaining push access, for maintaining clones
  of their packages, for commiting to the git.bioconductor.org
  repositories, and for pulling from (e.g., version bumps and release
  branches) the repositories.
  
- A public 'beta' test phase will start after the next Bioconductor
  release, and last for approxiately four weeks. Beta testers will
  have pull access to all Bioconductor package repositories, and push
  access to packages that they maintain. Commits will be visible, but
  NOT synced with SVN or incorporated into nightly builds.

- An essential activity during test periods is to verify that the SVN
  commit history has been captured in the git repositories.

Resourcs

- We will be developing resources to help developers in the
  transition.

Best,

Nitesh Turaga
Bioconductor Core Team
